okay so when I first moved in here it
had a standard Honeywell programmable
thermostat you've probably seen this
before you set the time you set the
temperature and then you leave it
problem is I don't have a very regular
schedule so the heat was coming on many
times when I wasn't here and it was off
and off when I wanted to be warm I
replaced the Honeywell with this this is
the nest programmable thermostat and
this is fantastic now first of all I
have to tell you I am no handyman but
the nest comes with everything you need
to transfer from this to the nest and in
fact it's very easy there's just a few
wires in most cases thermostats are
low-power devices so you don't have to
worry about electrocuting yourself and
it's pretty easy to get the wires just
right nest makes it extra easy though by
giving you an installation kit that not
only has all the screws and parts you
need it even has a screw driver with
four different bits it's kind of
something you might want to keep around
they also have labels you can stick on
the wire so you get the right color for
each wire it couldn't be easier to
install the nest once you've installed
it you'll have a plate that looks kind
of like this these are the different
colored wires nest is capable of
handling both air conditioning and
heating I just have heating here so
they're fewer wires it's very simple
notice the nest base plate has a level
built into it which makes it easy to get
it level and they also have you don't
have to use this I did in my case
because I have a large plate behind my
old thermostat a larger plate to cover
that up so it's a nice installation the
nest itself is just this beautiful thin
little device you plug it right in it
connects very easily presses in and now
this is the thermostat a couple of
interesting things on setup the first
thing you do is attach the nest to your
Wi-Fi network yes it has a built-in
Wi-Fi receiver the nest uses that to
communicate with you and to find out
what the local weather is so that it
doesn't turn the heat on on a hot day or
the air conditioning on on a cold day it
actually knows what temperature it is it
also has motion sensors so it knows when
you're home and will adjust itself to
your schedule so all you have to do when
you first get the nest is set the
temperature to a comfortable temperature
whenever you're here it's very easy this
just rotates the dial rotates
notice there's a little green leaf that
shows up when you're in an ecological
setting and the nest has already been up
work here for a while so it knows some
things about my habits so it for
instance knows that it's going to turn
the heat down at 10:30 when I go to bed
because it knows it doesn't see me
around so I'm going to set it to set II
sit 70 it's telling me okay but based on
previous behavior I'm going to turn that
off at 10:30 you can adjust that as well
most of the time I just let the nest do
its own thing now here's a great thing
let's say the Heat's on and I left the
house forgot to turn it off I don't want
to waste the whole day heating a house
that's empty nest also has iPhone and
Android apps this is my house because
the nest is online on the Wi-Fi network
I'm also able to control it remotely
it's showing where the nest is in
Petaluma California the current external
temperature here's my house I'd even
showing a little clouds to show the
weather and here's the thermostat and if
I tap it it's just like the nest
thermostat at home I could turn the
thermostat up and down remotely so if I
want to turn the heat down because I'm
not home I can do that right now and a
minute or two later the nest will turn
itself off and and my house will be
unheated or let's say I'm coming home
and I want to turn it up before I get
home I can do that as well
nest has a couple of advantages first of
all it's smart it learns your behavior
so you don't heat or cool your home when
you don't need it heated or cooled it
knows the weather outside it adjusts
itself in some unique ways they've even
put some smarts into it for instance if
you're using it as an air conditioner
control it's smart enough to know that
the cool the coils will still have some
cooling capability even after the air
conditioners been turned off so nest
leaves the fan on for a few more minutes
to circulate that cool air even after
the compressor has been turned off as
little things like this little touches
like this that make the nest so sweet
now it's expensive $250 if you're
building a new home even that's still
more expensive than a regular thermostat
but not quite so prohibitive if you're
going to replace any existing thermostat
it's a lot of money money you probably
won't make up except maybe over a few
years and saved heating cooling costs
but it does it is really cool the design
is beautiful
and you can see its heritage Tony Fadell
who founded nest was one of the early
iPod designers and I think he wanted to
put that same kind of smarts into a
thermostat it really is great in fact
even the packaging is well-thought-out
and it's just done a great job with it
so pros and cons on the pros it's
definitely a smarter thermostat you
don't have to program it it learns over
time it takes a count of things that a
normal thermostat doesn't take account
of like movement in the home and the
external weather it's done a very good
job for me even in just a few weeks of
use I imagine over time it'll get
smarter and smarter the con it's Oh
another pro by the way it's very easy to
install don't be put off I'm not a
handyman by any means I had no trouble
doing it in just a few minutes and I had
all the tools that I needed supplied in
the box with the nest the con of course
is the price $250 is pretty pricey you
can save some money by buying the older
nest but the newer one is lower profile
has some additional features I figure
why not get the latest and greatest my
recommendation on the nest and absolute
buy if you can get over the price hump
this thing is super cool how many times
will you have guests over and show them
your cool thermostat now that's nice to
have I definitely on the nest